Toast 🍞 (#3868)
adobe/react-spectrum: packages/@react-spectrum/toast/docs/Toast.mdx

{/* Copyright 2020 Adobe. All rights reserved.
This file is licensed to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy
of the License at http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under
the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR REPRESENTATIONS
OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the specific language
governing permissions and limitations under the License. */}

import {Layout} from '@react-spectrum/docs';
export default Layout;

import docs from 'docs:@react-spectrum/toast';
import {HeaderInfo, PropTable, PageDescription, ClassAPI, TypeContext, InterfaceType, TypeLink} from '@react-spectrum/docs';
import packageData from '@react-spectrum/toast/package.json';
import {Keyboard} from '@react-spectrum/text';

```tsx import
import {ButtonGroup, Button} from '@adobe/react-spectrum';
import {ToastContainer, ToastQueue} from '@react-spectrum/toast';
```

---
category: Status
keywords: [toast, notifications, alert]
after_version: 3.0.0
---

# Toast

> <PageDescription>Toasts are transient notifications of actions, errors, or other events in an application.</PageDescription>

Reviewer: Something like this seems more clear:

```suggestion
<PageDescription>Toasts display brief, temporary notifications of actions, errors, or other events in an application.</PageDescription>
```

    {type: 'Spectrum', url: 'https://spectrum.adobe.com/page/toast/'}
  ]} />

## Example

First, render a toast container at the root of your app:

```tsx example hidden
<ToastContainer />
```

Then, queue a toast from anywhere:

```tsx example
<Button
  onPress={() => ToastQueue.positive('Toast is done!')}
  variant="primary">
  Show toast
</Button>
```

## Content

Toasts are triggered using one of the methods of <TypeLink links={docs.links} type={docs.exports.ToastQueue} />. A &lt;<TypeLink links={docs.links} type={docs.exports.ToastContainer} />&gt; element must be rendered at the root of your app in order to display the queued toasts.

Toasts are shown according to a priority queue, depending on their variant. Actionable toasts are prioritized over non-actionable toasts, and errors are prioritized over other types of notifications. Only one toast is displayed at a time. See the [Spectrum design docs](https://spectrum.adobe.com/page/toast/#Priority-queue) for full information on toast priorities.

```tsx example
<ButtonGroup>
  <Button
    ///- begin highlight -///
    onPress={() => ToastQueue.neutral('Toast available')}
    ///- end highlight -///
    variant="secondary">

>     Show Default Toast

Reviewer: ``` suggestion
    Show Neutral Toast
```

  </Button>
  <Button
    ///- begin highlight -///
    onPress={() => ToastQueue.positive('Toast is done!')}
    ///- end highlight -///
    variant="primary">

>     Show Primary Toast

Reviewer: ``` suggestion
    Show Positive Toast
```

  </Button>
  <Button
    ///- begin highlight -///
    onPress={() => ToastQueue.negative('Toast is burned!')}
    ///- end highlight -///
    variant="negative">
    Show Negative Toast
  </Button>
  <Button
    ///- begin highlight -///
    onPress={() => ToastQueue.info('Toasting…')}
    ///- end highlight -///
    variant="accent"
    style="outline">

>     Show info Toast

Reviewer: For consistency: 

``` suggestion
    Show Info Toast
```

  </Button>
</ButtonGroup>
```

### Internationalization

To internationalize a Toast, all text content within the toast should be localized. This includes the `actionLabel` option, if provided. For languages that are read right-to-left (e.g. Hebrew and Arabic), the layout of Toast is automatically flipped.

### Accessibility

> Toasts are automatically displayed in a landmark region labeled "Notifications". The label can be overridden using the `aria-label` prop of the `ToastContainer` element. Landmark regions can be navigated using the keyboard by pressing the <Keyboard>F6</Keyboard> key to move forward, and the <Keyboard>Shift</Keyboard> + <Keyboard>F6</Keyboard> key to move backward. This provides an easy way for keyboard users to jump to the toasts from anywhere in the app. When the last toast is closed, keyboard focus is restored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Toasts are automatically displayed in a [landmark region](https://www.w3.org/WAI/ARIA/apg/practices/landmark-regions/) labeled "Notifications". The label can be overridden using the `aria-label` prop of the `ToastContainer` element. Landmark regions can be navigated using the keyboard by pressing the <Keyboard>F6</Keyboard> key to move forward, and the <Keyboard>Shift</Keyboard> + <Keyboard>F6</Keyboard> key to move backward. This provides an easy way for keyboard users to jump to the toasts from anywhere in the app. When the last toast is closed, keyboard focus is restored.
```
